---
title: "Our DRN work on WWW2018"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2018-05-26-talk-1
venue: "Lyon Convention Centre"
date: 2018-05-26
excerpt: 'Leverage deep reinforcement learning for news recommendation'
location: "Lyon, France"
---

## DRN: A Deep Reinforcement Learning Framework for News Recommendation

In this paper, we propose a novel Deep Reinforcement Learning framework for news recommendation. Online personalized news recommendation is a highly challenging problem due to the dynamic nature of news features and user preferences. Although some online recommendation models have been proposed to address the dynamic nature of news recommendation, these methods have three major issues. First, they only try to model current reward (e.g., Click Through Rate). Second, very few studies consider to use user feedback other than click / no click labels (e.g., how frequent user returns) to help improve recommendation. Third, these methods tend to keep recommending similar news to users, which may cause users to get bored. Therefore, to address the aforementioned challenges, we propose a Deep Q-Learning based recommendation framework, which can model future reward explicitly. We further consider user return pattern as a supplement to click / no click label in order to capture more user feedback information. In addition, an effective exploration strategy is incorporated to find new attractive news for users. Extensive experiments are conducted on the offline dataset and online production environment of a commercial news recommendation application and have shown the superior performance of our methods



[Download slides here](https://zhfzhmsra.github.io/files/drn_www2018/www2018_reinforceRec_final.pptx)<br />
[Download paper here](https://zhfzhmsra.github.io/files/drn_www2018/p167-zheng.pdf)<br />
